Okay, we will need three strips to start our
braided rug. And we'll probably be using about
four or five pairs of old jeans in order to
make one decent sized little area rug. Now
when you are making your jean strips, jeans
come in all different colors of blue jean.
So you want to think about that and use that
as your design elements. Some very light colored
jeans can add a nice look. You can mix them
up with a dark color. Or you can just have
one braid of just light and work that into
the center. And the next pair use a very dark
so that you have a dark outline on a white.
So you want to think about that. While you
are cutting your strips, you can sort them
as to how you want to use them. Next we are
going to put our three strips together. And
you'll need to secure that for the beginning.
You'll need to secure that. And you just take
with a needle and thread and do a few stitches
there. Now one thing you want to make sure
is that your three strips when you start are
not the same size. Okay? You don't want them
to all end at the same time. Because when
a strip ends, we are going to add another
piece to it and there will be a bulky section.
So we'll be adding a piece like this and so
it will be doubled over for a little while
and so it will be a real bulky section. So
you don't want all three strips to end at
the same point and then we'll have one big
huge bulky section. You want them to end at
different times. So here I have a short one.
And I will be joining another one. And then
as I go down, I just want to make sure that
these also do not end at the same time. Another
thing that you want to prepare before we start
our braiding, is if you have ripped the jeans
like I have in many places, there's a lot
of extra strings here. So you want to trim
out these extra strings because what will
happen is as you're braiding, they'll just
get very tangled up and you'll have difficulty
with the braiding. So just go through and
any of this excess strings, you want to get
rid off. Just snip them out. Now when you
cut the strips, you don't end up with all
of these, all of these strings.